
# Keymaster

A web service application that manages app keys for iOS applications (or other applicable use cases). Input to the service is a set of
credentials, the output is a blob of json that contains the set of credentials in an encrypted and serialized format. The intent is that on
first launch of your app, the contents of the file are decrypted and imported into the app's keychain. When a set of credentials are retrieved from `keymaster`, the output is as follows:

	{
		"cypherKey":"eb5108f4-d01f-472b-755a-2f407ac732b3",
		"cypherText":"tif4x89NOGLvHMqEPHMXi7Bxy/mFgPuIQ32SCrYv/RXyZAeBihtUTsF4s7TLolx3q6XKFuTqqrVB2bdmnB0p73Jo8Ui
					  JpYsZ8E3CCRagxmWPZEYthVwlaRbC5Pja/dpMTpb9SYIBmW8HYjlx6AhPFFGaWoo3D2zfOEJ2++C5V7RJfeVQg7Pg0z
					  Wxv20NqgYk6WxqkRD9y0ffYotwgaoLJTuXUUG7z0cC5b8iFXuLIjPeuxLh4tSBOOixuiM+aII4Z4DsND0OOEfNXzNvI
					  eDEvpC+b7aj0KtjXJCCaHA+iDP/05oET34DzYm8TORysFWzwPruG+YW1sbO4NRMqeGNIg=="
	}

The `cypherKey` is the acutal key used to encrypt the credentials. Encryption method is AES encryption using a 16bit UUID as the key and initialization vector. The returned `cypherText` is a base64 encoded representation of the encrypted credentials.

### Important Note

`keymaster` is *NOT* intended to be a highly secure password vault. It's primary purpose is to keep the credentials used by your app 
outside of your app's source code repository, yet easily included from a common location - the `keymaster` server. Although the output generated by `keymaster` is encrypted, it's also recommended that upon first run of your app, you import they `keymaster` credentials output into your app secure keychain facility. If you can then delete the `keymaster` output, do so. If you can't (say it's in yoru iOS bundle), then for an added measure of security, albeit probably not ultra-secure, remove the `cypherKey` from the credentials JSON file and store it separately in your app - preferably not as a string, but the 16 bytes which make up the UUID.

## Gatekeeper

Included is a command line utility, `gatekeeper` which you use to manage keys within `keymaster`. It's expected that `gatekeeper` is to be used somewhere in the build process of your app to extract the keys required for your apps installation bundle. Usage is as follows:

	$ gatekeeper -cmd [add|update|list|get|reissue] [-appid application-id] [-keymaster url-to-server] [-output output-path] [-spec input-credentials.json] [-decrypt]

	where: 
	
	-appid application-id : The application identifer of the credentials you wish to operate on
	-cmd command : Where command is one of [add update list get reissue]. The default command is list.
	-decrypt: Decrypt the contents of the retrieved credentials to stdout
	-keymaster : Full of keymaster server. overrides KEYMASTER_SERVER_URL environment variable if set
	-output output.json : Output file in which to store the encrypted credentials. omit for stdout
	-spec= input-spec.json : The application credentials spec file [json]

The input spec file format must be JSON and have the following structure: 

	{
	    "appNames" : [ 
	        { "AppName" : "idenfifier.of.your.app"},...
	    ],
	    "keys" : [
		{ 
		    "name" : "credentials-name",
		    "info" : "some method of representing your credentials"
		}, ...
	    ]
	}

The `appNames` key defines an array of all the various app names your particular app may use during it's development lifecyle (for instance, you use `com.clamdango.codename`, but `com.clamdango.myapp` when you submit for production or App Store).

The `keys` refer to an array of named credential definitions. Each definition must consist of a `name` and `info`. The `info` key is were you are to list out your actual credentials. Typical use case is that the `info` key will consist of a string representation of JSON that is decoded within your app and imported into your app's secure keychanin.  An example credentials spec is provided below:

	{
	    "appNames" : [ 
	        { "AppName" : "com.clamdango.appone"},
	        { "AppName" : "com.clamdango.apptwo"},
	        { "AppName" : "com.clamdango.appthree"}
	    ],
	    "keys" : [
		{ 
		    "name" : "production",
		    "info" : "{ \"api\" : \"some-production-api-key--xx\",\"username\" : \"random_username\",\"password\" : \"random_password\"}"
		}, 
		{ 
		    "name" : "development",
		    "info" : "{\"api\" : \"some-development-api-key-xxx\",\"username\" : \"dev_username\",\"password\" : \"dev_password\"}"
		}
	    ]
	}

The `info` value need not be JSON, but some easily parseable format for use internally within your app.

## Keymaster HTTP Web Protocol:

All error conditions will contain a JSON response body with any error details. The only exception may be in the case of internal server errors, where a response body could not be created.

HTTP status code 400 is returned as the result of any malformed client requests. More specific status codes are returned for more
specific error conditions.

### Error Reponse

	{
		"Message" : "an error message string"
	}

		
## Credentials

### Creating Credentials Set


Creates a new credential bundle. returns the encrypted bundle and the AES encryption key in the response.

ex:
	
	`gatekeeper -cmd add -spec input.json -keymaster 'http://keymaster.somedomain.com'` 

	REQUEST: POST /api/credentials

	BODY
    {
	"appNames" : [ { "AppName" : "com.clamdango.primary"}, {"AppName" : "com.clamdango.secondary"}, {"AppName" : "com.clamdango.alias"} ],
	"keys" : [
	    { 
		"name" : "production",
		"info" : "{ \"api\" : \"some-production-api-key\",\"username\" : \"random_username\",\"password\" : \"random_password\"}"
	    }, 
	    { 
		"name" : "staging",
		"info" : "{\"api\" : \"some-staging-api-key\",\"username\" : \"staging_username\",\"password\" : \"staging_password\"}"
	    }, 
	    { 
		"name" : "development",
		"info" : "{\"api\" : \"some-development-api-key\",\"username\" : \"dev_username\",\"password\" : \"dev_password\"}"
	    }
	]
	}

		
RESPONSE:
201: CREATED
	
	BODY
	{
		"cipher_key" : "abc-def-ghi-jklmnop",
		"cipher_text" : {
			"production" : {
				"api" : "an api key", 
				"password" : "a password"
				"username" : "a usernamne"
			}, 
			"development" : {
				"api" : "another api key",
				"username" : "another username",
				"password" : "another password"			
			}
		}
	}

409: Conflict

App bundle identifier exists or exists as an alias of another set of app credentials.


#### Notes

The output is shown here unencrypted for clarity. `gatekeeper` will show this when retrieving credentials if the `-decrypt` flag is provided.

## Retrieving Credentials

### Retrieving Credentials for an App

REQUEST

	`gatekeeper -cmd get -appid com.clamdango.appname -keymaster 'http://keymaster.somedomain.com'` 

	GET /api/credentials/com.clamdango.appname

RESPONSE:

200: OK

	BODY
	{
		"cipherKey" : "abc-def-ghi-jklmnop",
		"cipherText" : {
			"production" : {
				"api" : "an api key", 
				"password" : "a password"
				"username" : "a usernamne"
			}, 
			"development" : {
				"api" : "another api key",
				"username" : "another username",
				"password" : "another password"			
			}
		}
	}

#### Notes

The output is shown here unencrypted for clarity. `gatekeeper` will show this when retrieving credentials if the `-decrypt` flag is provided.

### Retrieving a List of Application Identifiers

REQUEST	
	
	`gatekeeper -cmd list -keymaster 'http://keymaster.somedomain.com'`
	
	GET /api/apps
	
RESPONSE	

	BODY
	[
		["com.clamdango.primary",
		"com.clamdango.secondary",
		"com.clamdango.alias"],
		
		["com.clamdango.stuff"],

		["com.clamdango.appone",
		"com.clamdango.appthree",
		"com.clamdango.apptwo"]
	]

#### NOTES

The response is an array of arrays of strings, which represent all the app id's associated to a given set of credentials. Any app id within an inner array will return the same set of credentials as the others in the same array.

## Reissuing a new cypher key

REQUEST:

	`gatekeeper -cmd reissue -appid com.clamdango.appname -keymaster 'http://keymaster.somedomain.com'`
	
	
	PATCH:  /api/credentials/com.clamdango.appname/reissue
	
RESPONSE:
	
200: OK

The response body is the same as with retrieval, however, the "cypher_text" value is encrypted with the new cypher key.

404 : Not Found

The app id provided could not be found.

## Updating Credentials.

A credentials record can be updated. It's expected that the body contains an entirely new representation of the credentials. This new representation will completely replace the existing representation. It makes no attempt to merge entries in the new representation with the previous.

REQUEST:

	`gatekeeper -cmd update -appid com.clamdango.appname -keymaster 'http://keymaster.somedomain.com' -spec newspec.json`


	PUT: /api/credentials/com.clamdango.appname
	
RESPONSE:

200: OK
	
	BODY
	{
		"cipherKey" : "abc-def-ghi-jklmnop",
		"cipherText" : {
			"production" : {
				"api" : "a different key", 
				"password" : "a password"
				"username" : "a usernamne"
			}, 
			"development" : {
				"api" : "another different api key",
				"username" : "another username",
				"password" : "another password"			
			}
		}
	}	
	
404: Not Found

The app id provided could not be found.


